# How to run this repo's files in your own local machine to reproduce results

In order to run the files in this repo, you will need a few requirements first:

## 1) Install  MCell/CellBlender v4.0.6 bundle with Blender 2.93
The CellBlender bundle containing MCell4 is available for download for different operating systems at the MCell.org website: https://mcell.org/download.html

As of 20230428 I used MCell/CellBlender v4.0.6 bundle with Blender 2.93, on Windows 10 to run this code.

I use VS Code as my IDE (Integrated development environment), but you can use whichever IDE you prefer. 

-  To use MCell4 outside of Blender with Python 3.9, additional installation steps are required as described below:

## 2) Setting System Variable MCELL_PATH and adding Python 3.9 to PATH

As per the mcell documentation, MCell4 Python models use the system variable MCELL_PATH to locate the MCell4 library. It is also useful as a shortcut to the location of utility scripts contained in the CellBlender bundle.

MCell4 also requires Python 3.9. You can either use you own installation or set the system variable PATH so that the Python included in the CellBlender bundle is found.

The models generated by CellBlender expect a system variable MCELL_PATH to be defined and use it to add this path (appended with ‘lib’) to the Python’s search paths like this: 

```python
MCELL_PATH = os.environ.get('MCELL_PATH', '')
sys.path.append(os.path.join(MCELL_PATH, 'lib'))

import mcell as m
```
This is specified in the [mcell_hexamer.py](./mcell_hexamer.py#L5) file. 

- In order to set the System Variable MCELL_PATH, depeding on your Operating System, please follow the instructions here: https://mcell.org/mcell4_documentation/installation.html#setting-system-variables

## 3) Set up an environment

In order to make sure we are both working with the same versions of python and dependencies required to run the python script in this repo, it will be useful to create an environment.

With a virtual environment, it’s possible to retain all the information in our projects like the dependencies, so anyone else can duplicate the same environment we’re working with.

### 3.1. If you have conda (the environment management system I use): 

You can use the [configuration.yml](./environment.yml) file in this repo, and create an environment with the following command:

```
conda env create --file environment.yml
```
Then activate the environment and run the [mcell_hexamer.py](./mcell_hexamer.py) file there.

I have found [these carpentries](https://carpentries-incubator.github.io/introduction-to-conda-for-data-scientists/) quite helpful with queries regarding conda environments, if you need some guidance here. 
### 3.2. If you use a different environment manager:

You will likely need to use the [requirements.txt](./requirements.txt) file instead. 

The commands to create and activate an environment using virtualenv, pipenv, venv, pyenv, etc will be different depending on which one you use. 

As an example, if you were using [venv](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html), then you would need to do something like this:

```virtualenv my-env ``` to create your new environment (called 'my-env' here)

```source my-env/bin/activate``` to enter the virtual environment

```pip install -r requirements.txt``` to install the requirements in the current environment

would this work?
```
venv create --name my-env python=3.9 --file requirements.txt
```
